Guiding Principles

Embrace Complexity
	Oversimplifying the world causes most of the errors people make in assessing the world around them.
	This is a conflict against your own ignorance.
	Almost any statement you make about all people everywhere will be false.
	Be very careful about generalizing people into groups, and especially about any pejoratives you assign to those groups. The members of those groups are individuals, not a conglomerate, and their actions seem quite reasonable from their perspective.
	Question whether perceived patterns are real.

Honesty Is Fundamental
	He who deceives others deceives himself.
	Not only must you forego the use of lies, you must seek them out and expose them wherever they can be found in your life. Think carefully about the things that others tell you are true, and be especially careful about the things you tell yourself.
	Be wary of easy answers. Reexamine conclusions that favor you and yours. Think about the side of the story you're not being told.
	Most of the lies we encounter are the ones we tell ourselves. We use these lies to make ourselves more comfortable. Lies like "it's hopeless; there's no point in doing anything," or "[those people I don't get along with] are [stupid/crazy/evil]", or "[thing I did/might do] is OK because [justification]." Telling ourselves these things is much simpler than grappling with the real world in all its nasty complexity, so we just make up something that seems to make sense and move on. But living inside a ball of comfy lies is a small, miserable existence. If you want a powerful, joyful life you can be proud of, you're gonna have to take off the velvet gloves and develop some calluses.

Life Is Conflict
	When a conflict is placed before you, do not seek to avoid it. Overcome it and take its XP.
  I will not flinch from anything purely on the basis that makes me uncomfortable. I will accept pain when it leads to something good. I will learn to recognize fear and overcome it. 
	Our conflicts are not against other people, but against our own character flaws, and against the ideas and systems that seek to damage and suppress us.
	The most important villains to defeat are the ones inside yourself.
	Pick your battles. You cannot be strong in everything. Decide which issues are really important to you and attack them relentlessly; let the unimportant stuff slide. Sometimes the most honest answer is "I don't know" or "I don't really care."
You Get Experience Points For Everything
  Everything you do shapes who you are. When you confront a difficult problem and you're not sure what the best solution is, don't just look for the most expeditious path--look for the path that will shape you into the kind of person you want to become. 
	Make sure you're leveling the skills that are really important. If there are two approaches to a problem, take the one that will give you the kind of XP you want.
	[Describe paragon points from Mass Effect if appropriate for length]
Be Kind By Default
	Everyone is fighting their own difficult battles. You know very little about others' lives. 
	Ever heard "Sticks and stones will break my bones, but words will never hurt me"? What a lie. 
	Words have power. Use yours responsibly. Criticize constructively or not at all.
Practice Love
	John 13:34 - "A new command I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another." This is Jesus' most difficult command. 
	Loving someone when they're being nice to you is easy; true love is loving someone when they drive you nuts. Love is a skill that must be developed like anything else. Look for opportunities to level up your love. One day you will fight a boss, and you don't want to be underleveled when that day comes. 
This is our everyday epic: The good within us against the evil, our love overcoming our hate, driving ourselves to keep getting better. 
The choice is yours: will you be a player or an NPC? 

Declaring your allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ assures your salvation after death. How nice for you. What are you planning on doing until then? If your Christianity doesn't turn you into a kinder, stronger, more effective person, why would you expect non-Christians to be impressed?